hey guys I'm joke in the world poops
today I want to talk a little bit about
confidence pretty much everyone agrees
and talks about confidence in sports and
how they're a big part in a key trade of
most good basketball players the mental
side of basketball is huge and
conference is a big part that I received
a ton of questions and emails about how
you develop confidence how can you
improve conferring confidence so I'm
going to talk a little bit about that
today now first off what is confidence
confidence is a mindset it's a trades
attitude and just like other traits you
can develop improve it refine it
confidence is believing in your
abilities and believing that you will
succeed it's when you truly think that
you can and will win or succeed and this
is both on the court and off the court
so we're simply the basketball this
could mean believing that you're going
to shut down the guy that's guarding you
or it could be believing that that next
shot is going to go in like I mentioned
there are a few ways you can develop
their confidence so I'm going to give
you a few of the ways that I've seen in
and used over the years the first one is
simple it's train hard now this might
make not make a lot of sense at first
but this is a great way to develop
confidence here's the reason if you
train hard you put in the time and you
know that you're working harder than
everyone else how can you not be
confident in your abilities another
thing is measuring your training and
setting goals this goes hand in hand
with the train hard piece but if you
measure your training and you start out
the summer
in the offseason shooting sixty-five
percent from the free-throw line and at
the end of the season at the end of the
offseason you're shooting seventy-five
eighty eighty-five percent that's going
to give you confidence you know you're a
better free throw shooter so when you
step to that line when you get in the
game you're going to be confident the
third thing is to just go do it it's a
little bit of an ecchi cliche but it's
true now what I mean by this is how how
do you live your day-to-day life how do
you walk how do you talk if you're
confident in your life off the court if
you walk confidently you're confident in
your interactions with people you're
that's going to transfer to the
basketball court when you walk through
strive with your head up looking forward
shoulders back chest out I mean that's
how somebody confident rocks you don't
see Kobe Bryant walking down a hallway
with his head down not looking at
anybody walking slow shoulders hunched
no he's too confident for that even if
you aren't confident act confident
eventually you'll probably end up being
more confident so number three is just
go out and be confident the fourth thing
is to change your vocabulary this might
sound dumb to some people but it works
you have to eliminate the I can I won't
I don't me we can't do it we can't come
back there's no way we can do that you
got to take that out of your vocabulary
and you got to replace it with we will I
will he can't stop me that's the only
time you can use can you know think of
an example when say you're in college
and a near freshman or sophomore and
you're doing pretty well but it's
Christmas break and a guy that signed a
contract to play in Greece is back to
work out the team for a few days tori
spelling's home for the holidays you got
a garden your thoughts shouldn't be oh
man this guy's gonna kill me if that
should be I'm going to hold this guy now
that's comedy
you have to make yourself believe that
in doing something like changing our
vocabulary that's going to help you with
that the fifth thing the last thing and
tough I touched on it a little bit but
it's to go practice confidence kick all
four of these other items and go do one
if you do all these things you walk with
confidence you pretend like you have
confidence even if you might not you
adopt the mindset if I can i will i'm
going to you know you eliminate whereas
i cant dont won't and you just keep on
and keep acting like you're confident
you keep them the mentality that that
you're always going to succeed and
you're going to if you don't you're
going to work so hard that you have to
succeed next time if you practice all
these things just like practicing a new
move or new post move or a new play
eventually you're going to happen so
practice confidence live it day in day
out on the court off the court so five
things train hard set and track goals go
out and do it be confident off the court
change your vocabulary and practice your
confidence all these things are going to
add up to a more confident person so go
do it set some goals measure those goals
change your strive change your attitude
and your comp the confidence on the
court will come good luck to you leave
comments and questions and let us know
how it goes
you